---
layout: distill
title: root node
date: 2015-03-15 16:40:16
description: some deep shit
# tags: formatting links
# categories: sample-posts
# permalink: /notes/
---

Through an extensive study of the intro sections of Wikipedia pages and watered-down video essays, I have gained enough knowledge to deceit myself into believing that I have understood the basics of Existential and Indic philosophies. What follows is an attempt to organise what I understand and fill in the gaps that emerge. The flow of the topics will roughly follow the order in which I came across them. (Un)surprisingly, a few of my friends also came across these things in a similar order. 

**Why make the effort?:** The childhood and early teenage years were spent being religious. Once I started reading things on my own, and got some encouragement to think independently and question things, scepticism came in. After reading some classic non-fiction books and 11th grade physics (obviously, it didn't take a lot to convince me), I became as strong of an atheist as I was a theist just a few months back. The later few were spent reading and absorbing some of the standard arguments against the existence of any type of supernatural entity. After a while I realised that this is hopeless, no one can prove or disprove the existence of God, and I settled on being an agnostic who acted as if there was no God. The love for rationalism went hand-in-hand. I encountered some atheistic Indian schools of thought like Charvak and Ajivika, which gave me some validation. Nihilism is a natural consequence, since so far the meaning and purpose of life was being derived from religion. Faith, the thing that I used as a crutch to deal with typical hardships of life was no longer available, and a replacement was really necessary. Perhaps, a stronger man would not need a crutch. Perhaps, just realising the randomness of outcomes, accepting the lack of agency, staring at the meaninglessness of life is enough to keep him happy. But I am no Sisyphus. In fact, I think there aren't a lot of Sisyphi roaming around in this world. 

All these basic realisations, although they seem logical and obvious, lack two things which are essential for the weak among us to live a blissful life (to be argued): a concrete, well defined purpose and a robust framework to make decisions to move towards the said purpose (in a way that they aren't regretted later in life). A few lucky ones have these needs met innately, they need not do anything more. Many prefer to not think a lot, and discretely cope with the situations they encounter on the go. Unless ones life take some wild turns, this is sustainable enough to go through life without much suffering. On top of this, most people I've come across also use faith/religion in some way to cope, and often turn to different magnitudes of superstitions in the face of hardships. Some find their escape in drugs, by looking for aliens or making an unnatural number of trips to see the Northern Lights (_for God's sake, how many trips do you need to make to see the same fucking light_). Those of us for whom none of these methods play well, are left riffling through the scriptures.[^1]

[^1]: In reality, people don't fit nicely into these separate well-defined boxes, but use a combination of these approaches. Am I missing any other ways?